International Trade Terminal - FREIGHT DESK

WHAT IT IS
A rate memory and landed cost calculator for trading. Quantities and
per-unit prices are in metric tonnes, shown as MT.
- Rate memory: capture every rail tariff, loading charge, port charge and
  carrier offer as it arrives. Each lane (carrier, route, commodity, billing
  basis) keeps its history and shows the % change between rates. A rate can
  be corrected, archived, or deleted for good (saved quotes keep their own
  copy of the rates they used).
- Landed cost: build a quote from those rates. Railcar, container and
  truckload charges count whole units. USD converts at a typed rate or the
  Bank of Canada daily rate. Enter the final price for the customer to see
  the estimated earnings, or a warning when that price loses money.
- Charges table: a USD charge shows its Per MT and Shipment amounts in USD.
  That includes a % charge (of goods value or of the final price) billed in
  USD: the percentage and its cost are the same, shown in USD.
  The column headings say (CAD) or (USD) when every charge is in that
  currency; when they are mixed, each amount is marked C$ or US$. Where a
  charge's currency differs from the quote summary's, the amount in the
  summary's currency is shown beneath, so the rows add up to the summary.
- Quote summary: shown in CAD or USD (the CAD / USD switch on the summary,
  kept with the quote and printed as "Quote summary (USD)"). Everything is
  worked out in CAD and converted at the quote's USD to CAD rate, so a USD
  summary needs that rate. New quotes keep the last choice. Saved quotes are
  listed in CAD.
- Rate checks: each line warns when its rate has expired, is older
  than 30 days, is not in effect yet, or a newer rate is on file. A quote
  "holds until" the first expiry among the rates it uses.
- Standard rows: every quote has Transloading, Labour charges, Ocean
  freight, Insurance and Commission rows ready to fill in. A row left blank
  is not part of the quote (no cost, no warnings, not printed). Adding a
  rate of the same type from rate memory fills the blank row instead of
  adding another.
- Commission can be a % of the final price or an amount per MT. A % needs
  the final price per MT, and its cost per MT is worked out from it.
- Deal details include the customer and the product grade. The quote
  reference and delivery terms are optional; left blank, they are left off
  the PDF, as are a blank USD to CAD rate and final price. Example text in an
  empty box is never printed. A USD to CAD rate is needed once a charge, the
  purchase price or an entered final price is in USD.
- "Other charge": give it a name (Fumigation, Bagging, Demurrage...) and the
  name is shown in place of "Other charge" on the quote, the PDF and in rate
  memory. In rate memory the name is required, and each name keeps its own
  rate history.
- Final price and estimated earnings: shown once a final price per MT is
  entered on the quote. Estimated earnings = final price - landed cost (all
  charges, commission included), for the whole shipment.
- Customers: lists of the companies you quote to, with contact and usual
  delivery terms. Pick one in the quote's Customer box; its delivery terms
  fill in if the quote has none. Saving a quote for a customer not on the
  list adds them (matched ignoring case and spacing), with the quote's
  delivery terms as their usual terms. Click a customer to see their details
  and the saved quotes made out to them; a quote saved under a customer's
  earlier name is not matched after a rename.
- Workspaces: rate memory, saved quotes and customers are kept per
  workspace. Portal staff share one (everything saved before workspaces
  existed stays there). Each client company has its own, seen only through
  that company's access links, so colleagues' links need the same company
  spelling. A link made before links named a company has one of its own.
  Staff do not see client workspaces, and clients do not see the staff
  workspace or each other's.
- A client's quotes default to the company on their link ("Your company
  name" on the PDF); they can type another.
- Saved quotes: the server recomputes totals and keeps a copy of the rates
  used. Opening a saved quote re-checks it against today's rates.
- Print / PDF: prints as a Costing Sheet on one page, as large as fits: up
  to 25% larger than full size for a short quote, scaled down for a long one.
  Hints for filling in the form are not printed. The top of the page shows
  "Your company name" from the quote (default International Trade Terminal)
  and the time it was printed. New quotes keep the last name used in that
  browser; saved quotes keep their own. The browser's own header and footer
  (page title, web address, page numbers) are switched off while a quote
  prints.

WHO CAN USE IT
/app/#Freight Desk   Staff. Sidebar > Operations > Freight Desk. Uses the
                     existing Netlify Identity sign-in and the member role.
/freight/            Clients, through a single-use link. Same desk, on its
                     own page, without the rest of the portal.
Staff manage client links under Freight Desk > Client access, in the portal
only. The /freight/ page never shows Client access, even in a browser that is
also signed in to the portal, and the link APIs accept portal members only.

CLIENT LINKS
1. Freight Desk > Client access > enter who it is for and their company >
   Create link.
2. Copy the link and send it to that person only. It works ONCE and expires
   after 1 to 30 days if unopened.
3. They open it and press "Open the Freight Desk". That uses up the link
   and signs in their browser until you revoke access. Each visit renews
   the sign-in, so it does not lapse while they keep using the desk.
4. Revoke ends their access on their next click.
5. Clear history deletes revoked and expired links from the list for good.
   Links in use or not opened yet are kept, so nobody loses access.
- The page asks for a button press on purpose: email security scanners
  open links automatically, and would otherwise use them up.
- One link = one person, one browser. For a second device, make a second link.
- Only a fingerprint (SHA-256) of each link is stored, never the link.

SETUP (once)
1. Environment variable. In Netlify: Project configuration > Environment
   variables, add SESSION_SECRET. Generate a value with:
       npm install
       npm run secrets
   If Netlify asks for scopes, include Functions.
2. Deploy with the Netlify CLI or a Git-connected site (not drag-and-drop):
       npx netlify-cli deploy --prod
   The functions, edge function and blob storage are set up automatically.
3. Sign in to the portal as a member and open Freight Desk.

WHERE THE DATA LIVES
Netlify Blobs on this site: stores freight-access, freight-rates,
freight-quotes and freight-customers. Staff data uses plain keys
(rates.json, index.json and quote/<id>, customers.json). A client company's
data sits under company/<fingerprint of the company name>/ (its customers at
company/<fingerprint>.json); an older link's under link/<link id>/. Browse
them in Netlify under Data & Storage > Blobs. Writes use version checks so
two people saving at once never overwrite each other. Site-wide Blobs
default to Netlify's us-east-2 (Ohio) region; Netlify has no Canadian
region.

FILES
freight/FreightDesk.js         The desk (React, same classes as the portal)
freight/calc.js                Landed cost math, shared by browser and server
freight/freight.css            Styles the portal has no equivalent for
freight/portal-kit.css         Copy of the portal rules the client page needs,
                               because /styles.css is members-only. After
                               editing styles.css run: npm run portal-kit
freight/index.html, main.js    The client page at /freight/
freight/access/                Where client links land (styled like /login)
netlify/edge-functions/        Gate for /freight/* (members or client links)
netlify/functions/             APIs under /api/freight/*
netlify/lib/                   Sessions, Identity check, validation,
                               customer lists
_redirects                     Now also hides server files from the public site

LOCAL TESTING
    npm install
    npm run secrets > .env
    echo IDENTITY_API_URL=http://localhost:9999 >> .env
    node test/mock-identity.mjs        (prints a member token; leave running)
    npx netlify-cli dev                (second terminal)
    npm test                           (math)
    node test/e2e.mjs                  (end-to-end, third terminal)
IDENTITY_API_URL points the site at a stand-in for Netlify Identity. Never
set it in production.

SETTINGS WORTH REVIEWING
- A rate counts as old after 30 days (staleDays in freight/calc.js).
- FREIGHT_MEMBER_ROLE changes which Identity role counts as staff
  (default member, matching _redirects).
